README.md, before:

# SpeedTest To Home Assistant
This project provides a way for Home Assistant to run the OKLA official `speedtest.net` binary (binary running on Linux) using an automation.  It consists of the following:
* Home Assistant running its native [Speedtest.net integration](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/speedtestdotnet/) in manual mode.
* OKLA [Speedtest-cli binary](https://www.speedtest.net/apps/cli)
* Python Code to launch the Speedtest-cli binary, receive the results, parse them, and post the results to HA using their token based API.
* A Shell script to launch the Python code.
* A Home Assistant automation to call the shell script.

Background - Home Assistant provides a native SpeedTest integration which uses a [third party Python code](https://github.com/sivel/speedtest-cli) to run the actual tests.  The third party code attempts to mimic the official speedtest-cli but the test results of the third party code does not always reflect that of the official speedtest-cli.  

Note: There are other ways for HA to run the Speedtest-CLI binary such as the one provided by the Home Assistant Community Forum [here](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/add-the-official-speedtest-cli/161915/15).

# Instructions
## Home Assistant 
### Home Assistant Speedtest Dot Net
Setup the Speedtest dot net integration in HA and configure the manual mode to TRUE.  Restart HA, and check the Developer's Tools where you should see 3 sensors:
* `sensor.speedtest_download`
* `sensor.speedtest_ping`
* `sensor.speedtest_upload`

Manual mode is required.  This prevents the integration from running its own version of speedtest and subsequently prevents it from updating these sensors itself.

Note: HA provides a native service `sensor.update_speedtest` that is used to run the third-party speedtest-cli.  This service is not to be used along with this project.

### Home Assistant Token Generation
Follow the instructions for having HA generate a "Long-Lived Access Token".  As of this writting, this is done by going to the User profile and going to the card "Long-Lived Access Token" and clicking "CREATE TOKEN".  A Popup should show you the newly generated token (you can give it some friendly name).  It is required that you copy this token as it will be used later in the python file.

## Setup for the Github Files
* Create a directory in you Home Assistant configuration directory, for example named `shell_commands`  and copy the `launch_speed_test.sh` and `speedtest-cli-2ha.py` to this directory.  Use a text editor and edit the `speedtest-cli-2ha.py` and fill out the information according to the instructions within this file.

* Goto the OOKLA site mentioned above and get one of the Linux binaries that will run on your system.  You can usually find out by typing in your linux shell: `$uname -m`  which should return something like `x86_64`.  Download that tar file and extract its binary and put it into this same directory (ex. `shell_commands`).  Rename the binary `speedtest.bin` as a recommendation.

* Execute the binary by typing `$ ./speedtest.bin`.  You will get prompted to accept the EULA.  Once accpeted, it will store a file away that will allow it to remember this so that next time you won't be prompted again.  It will continue to run and automatically pick a nearby OOKLA server and provide textual results.  The binary is now useable by the python code.

You can now test this scheme to see if it works by typing `$ ./launch_speed_test.sh`.  After around a minute, check HA's speedtest sensors to see if they were updated.  If this does not work, then go into the python file and set the `DEBUG` to 1, and `CONSOLE` to 1, then type `$ ./speedtest-cli-2ha.py`.  This will run the speedtest and provide debug information to get ideas of what the problem is.
## HA Automation
* Configure a shell command in your configuration.yaml file:
```
shell_command: #Starting 0.114, command timesout after 60s.
  launch_speedtest_cli: CONFIG-PATH-TO/.homeassistant/shell_commands/launch_speed_test.sh
```
* Setup the HA automation itself and use the following action:
```
    action:
      - service: shell_command.launch_speedtest_cli
```

Commit message:

Document fix for HA container usrs

README.md, after:

# SpeedTest To Home Assistant
This project provides a way for Home Assistant to run the OKLA official `speedtest.net` binary (binary running on Linux) using an automation.  It consists of the following:
* Home Assistant running its native [Speedtest.net integration](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/speedtestdotnet/) in manual mode.
* OKLA [Speedtest-cli binary](https://www.speedtest.net/apps/cli)
* Python Code to launch the Speedtest-cli binary, receive the results, parse them, and post the results to HA using their token based API.
* A Shell script to launch the Python code.
* A Home Assistant automation to call the shell script.

Background - Home Assistant provides a native SpeedTest integration which uses a [third party Python code](https://github.com/sivel/speedtest-cli) to run the actual tests.  The third party code attempts to mimic the official speedtest-cli but the test results of the third party code does not always reflect that of the official speedtest-cli.  

Note: There are other ways for HA to run the Speedtest-CLI binary such as the one provided by the Home Assistant Community Forum [here](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/add-the-official-speedtest-cli/161915/15).

# Instructions
## Home Assistant 
### Home Assistant Speedtest Dot Net
Setup the Speedtest dot net integration in HA and configure the manual mode to TRUE.  Restart HA, and check the Developer's Tools where you should see 3 sensors:
* `sensor.speedtest_download`
* `sensor.speedtest_ping`
* `sensor.speedtest_upload`

Manual mode is required.  This prevents the integration from running its own version of speedtest and subsequently prevents it from updating these sensors itself.

Note: HA provides a native service `sensor.update_speedtest` that is used to run the third-party speedtest-cli.  This service is not to be used along with this project.

### Home Assistant Token Generation
Follow the instructions for having HA generate a "Long-Lived Access Token".  As of this writting, this is done by going to the User profile and going to the card "Long-Lived Access Token" and clicking "CREATE TOKEN".  A Popup should show you the newly generated token (you can give it some friendly name).  It is required that you copy this token as it will be used later in the python file.

## Setup for the Github Files
* Create a directory in you Home Assistant configuration directory, for example named `shell_commands`  and copy the `launch_speed_test.sh` and `speedtest-cli-2ha.py` to this directory.  Use a text editor and edit the `speedtest-cli-2ha.py` and fill out the information according to the instructions within this file.

* Goto the OOKLA site mentioned above and get one of the Linux binaries that will run on your system.  You can usually find out by typing in your linux shell: `$uname -m`  which should return something like `x86_64`.  Download that tar file and extract its binary and put it into this same directory (ex. `shell_commands`).  Rename the binary `speedtest.bin` as a recommendation.

* Execute the binary by typing `$ ./speedtest.bin`.  You will get prompted to accept the EULA.  Once accepted, it will store a file away that will allow it to remember this so that next time you won't be prompted again.  It will continue to run and automatically pick a nearby OOKLA server and provide textual results.  The binary is now useable by the python code.

You can now test this scheme to see if it works by typing `$ ./launch_speed_test.sh`.  After around a minute, check HA's speedtest sensors to see if they were updated.  If this does not work, then go into the python file and set the `DEBUG` to 1, and `CONSOLE` to 1, then type `$ ./speedtest-cli-2ha.py`.  This will run the speedtest and provide debug information to get ideas of what the problem is.

### Note to users running Home Assistant in a Docker container 
Regarding the file that speedtest.bin writes to after accepting the EULA, this file will get removed on the next HA upgrade causing the user to have to re-run speedtest.bin by hand in order to accept the EULA.  If the EULA is acceptable, one can avoid this problem by changing the following lines to the `speedtest-cli-2ha.py` <br/>
From:
```
process = subprocess.Popen([SPEEDTEST_PATH,'--format=json','--precision=4',speed_test_server_id],
```
To:
```
process = subprocess.Popen([SPEEDTEST_PATH,'--format=json','--precision=4', '--accept-license', '--accept-gdpr', speed_test_server_id],
```

## HA Automation
* Configure a shell command in your configuration.yaml file:
```
shell_command: #Starting 0.114, command timesout after 60s.
  launch_speedtest_cli: CONFIG-PATH-TO/.homeassistant/shell_commands/launch_speed_test.sh
```
* Setup the HA automation itself and use the following action:
```
    action:
      - service: shell_command.launch_speedtest_cli
```
